Freedom in the world data provided by Freedom House

Companies data is the surveillance industry index

city-to-country data provided by https://simplemaps.com/data/world-cities

to convert to SQL I used https://sqlizer.io/, this made it way easier to compile 
into SQL. As the data is not sensitive this should not lead to any concerns.

The website can also be viewed on https://worldometer.eu.pythonanywhere.com

The idea would be that the amount of HQ's of surveillance companies in a country 
could be crossed with the freedom score. This might show that more surveillance 
companies would be located in more free countries. With only 528 companies in 
45 countries this might prove to not show anything, but let's hope it does.



Reflection on User Tracking:

I chose to track the time that is spent on the website and the clicks on the contact 
button in the hero. I could have implemented more tracking markers on other buttons on the 
website, but I do not think it is necessary to see if people go to the about page. One 
interesting place might have been the drop-down selector for the countries.
The time someone spends is nice to have as a general indication of how much time someone 
actually spends on your website, and the button is useful for increasing personal knowledge 
about what happens on the page. If I know how many people might be interested in contacting 
me, I can see if the website might be interesting to many people. This gives me motivations 
to make more informative websites. By testing the tracking on my peers I found that they did 
not spend a lot of time on the website. This might be due to the website not being finished 
yet at the time of testing the user tracking, and another reason might be due to peers not 
caring all to much about the website, which I can totally understand. Everybody has their 
own website to worry about. The button was clicked a few times, which indicates that the 
button works. Showing contact details is a useful addition to such a website, because people
might be interested in other work or want to ask questions about the data that is being used 
on the website.
A few benefits are that the user tracking can give you insights in what people do on your
website, if implemented in the right places. Implementing user tracking also helps in seeing 
if the click-through rate on the buttons is high, or can be improved. A harm might be that you 
can be storing personal data, if an IP-adress or personal information through forms might also 
be tracked. These websites have no protection of the data. This means that malicious actors 
can get their hands on the data. Harm can also come in the form of cookies. Or worse, profiling.
This can lead to targeted advertisements. Privacy is an important part of my personal life, so I 
understand that other people might feel unsafe if they know about personal information being 
tracked. To combat this feeling one might include a disclaimer that no personal information is 
being tracked
Implications of collecting this data have been addressed before (including personal data being 
stored), but another complication is that you should find a balance between sensitive and 
non-sensitive information.
The time that is being spent on a website is not that sensitive of information, but 
IP-addresses are.
Using off-the-shelf tools might make it easier to implement tracking, but it also allows
third-parties (the makers of the tool, and the people they sharethe data with) to see what
happens on the website. This might make the data less private, and could be harmful to
the people visiting your site. Their data can be logged using cookies, which can include
third-party cookies. This makes it easy for the big-tech to create a profile on someone.
Over all, I think user tracking can be implemented for many useful things, but there are 
also many people who do not care about what users are doing on their website. For this 
website I do not see the best use case, but I can definitely see ways this tracking can 
be very useful. For example, big public websites like YouTube can use this to boost their 
algorithms.